# GETTING STARTED

Select _Profiles_ option from the Mod Organizer 2 (MO2) menu, select
your TPF profile, which you use for playing (basic or performance version), and select _Copy_ on the
right side and then name the copied profile `The Phoenix Flavour -
Dragon’s Edition` (and add `(Performance)` to the name if you have copied the performance version of TPF).

---

# INTERFACE (optional)

Create a separator and name it `INTERFACE EXTENDED` and place it
directly below the *INTERFACE* separator (and its mods). Change its
colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

This category's mods are optional - you can just skip it or install the
mods you like. There will be instructions on files, which are needed, if
you have decided to use one or more mods.

## [ReCleaned Menu](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/26680)

**Main files** - ReCleanedMenus

*I prefer the vanilla-style main menu. It also doesn’t mess up so much
with the beautiful background.*

## [Centaur Font](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/14356)

**Main files** - Centaur Font SSE

*Sovngarde font looks a little bit cartoonish to me, while Centaur font
is looking good within Skyrim's theme and is more usual, but not too
ordinary.*

## [12th Century Book Font](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/72159)

**Main files** - Font

*Replaces font in Skyrim's books to look not as modern, more
sophisticated.*

## [Consolas Font - Sovngarde Font - 12th Century Book Font Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/51973)

**Needed if you use TPF's default Sovngarde font and 12th Century
Book Font.**

**Optional files** - Consolas Font - Sovngarde Font - 12th Century
Book Font Patch

## [Consolas Font - Centaur Font - 12th Century Book Font Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/51973)

**Needed if you use both Centaur Font and 12th Century Book Font.**

**Optional files** - Consolas Font - Centaur Font - 12th Century Book
Font Patch

## [SmoothCam](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/41252)

**Main files** - SmoothCam

**FOMOD** - if you have a modern CPU, choose `SmoothCam AVX`, `SmoothCam
SSE` otherwise, then `ESL`.

**Instructions** - rename the mod’s plugin to *SmoothCam.esp*.

*Have you ever been in a situation, when you were playing in third
person mode and fighting your enemy and you thought that you would land
your arrow or a spell on the enemy, because your crosshair was right on
them, but Skyrim has decided otherwise... Then this is a mod for you.*

## [iHUD - SmoothCam Automated Compatibility Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/51918)

**Not needed without SmoothCam. Recommended with it.**

**Main files** - iHUD - SmoothCam Automated Compatibility Patch

*SmoothCam has its own crosshair, which appears right, when you aim. We
need this patch to disable our basic crosshair not to confuse us, while
we are trying to shoot, roast, electrocute, freeze etc. things.*

## [SmoothCam - Octavian's Preset](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/43927)

**Not needed without SmoothCam. Recommended with it.**

**Main files** - SmoothCam - Octavian's Preset 1.1.2

*I have tried many presets and this one feels great for playing the
game, especially for our cause - aiming in third person mode.*

## [Quick Loot RE](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/21085)

**Main files** - QuickLootRE

*One of the best additions to Fallout 4 (FO4) was the looting menu,
which appears right when you move your cursor over lootable item without
need to open game's full menu. This mod allows us to use this addition,
but in Skyrim.*

## [No Lockpick Activate](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/26790)

**Needed if you want to use Quick Loot RE.**

**Main files** - No Lockpick Activate (SKSE) - Updated

*Fixes game's and looting menu mod's interaction, where you would be
forced into the full menu upon unlocking container. It also affects
every other locked object, so, for example, you have to interact with
doors after unlocking them to open them.*

## [Minimalist Quick Loot](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45581)

**Not needed without Quick Loot RE. Optional with it.**

**Main files** - Minimalist Quick Loot

**FOMOD** - Whatever options you like.

*Useful to make Quick Loot's interface smaller and less bulky by making
it transparent.*

## [moreHUD Inventory Edition](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/18619)

**Main files** - moreHUD Inventory Edition Loose Version

*It makes you aware of known weapon and armor enchantments, books you
have read and it tells you about which kind of skill you can level by
reading book.*

## [Alternate Conversation Camera](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/21220)

**The mod is incompatible with Free Look - Free Look's functionality
will not work with this mod installed.**

**Main files** - Alternate Conversation Camera

**INI** - In line 51, change _bLetterBox_ to `0`.

*Another FO4 like addition to Skyrim, which makes conversations look
much more lively.*

## [Werewolf Transformation Timer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45326)

**Main files** - Werewolf Transformation Timer

*You will finally know how much time you have left before you need to
find another body to feed and not to think about it every single time
you transform into werewolf.*

---

# NEW CONTENT

The beast of this add-on comes too early (well, for me it came as the
last one, but you got the idea). The point of this section is to add
content to our beloved Skyrim to make the game even more interesting. I
won’t write any descriptions of mods (if you don’t count the gameplay
guide at the end) as I don’t want to spoil the fun (and because I am too
lazy at this point and just want to play a bit). And why should I? These
mods talk for themselves. They will be great adjustments to already
existing content and some of these are the most popular and loved quest
mods in Nexus Skyrim Special Edition’s page, so I hope you are hyped the
same way as I was (and still am).

Create a separator and name it `NEW CONTENT` and place it directly below
the *WEATHER* separator (and its mods). Change its colour, so that it
won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

## [Winterhold Deep Sea Ruins](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/53707?tab=files)

**Main files** - winterholddeepsearuins

## [Obscure's College of Winterhold](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/20514?tab=files)

**Main files** - Obscure's College of Winterhold

**FOMOD** - `Immersive College NPCs Integration, Recommended Interiors,
New Music Plus Vanilla Music, Relighting Skyrim, Book Covers Skyrim,
Quests are in Skyrim, Audio Overhaul, Artifacts - The Tournament of the
Ten Bloods, Interesting NPCs, Mysticism - A Magic Overhaul, The Tools of
Kagrenac, Viewable Faction Ranks, WACCF - Armor and Clothing Extension,
Weapons Armor Clothing and Clutter Fixes 2.0+`.

## [Forsworn Gravesingers](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40143?tab=files)

**Main files** - Gravesingers

## [Forsworn Skinchangers](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/34900?tab=files)

**Main files** - Skinchangers v1

## [Civil War Deserters](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44497?tab=files)

**Main files** - Civil War Deserters

## [Hearthfire - Unique Display Rooms](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4770?tab=files)

**Main files** - HearthFires - Unique Special Edition Display Room

## [Serenity](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/30019?tab=files)

**Main files** - Serenity Installer

**FOMOD** - Prefab.

## [Improved Follower Dialogue - Lydia](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/38473?tab=files)

**Main files** - Improved Follower Dialogue - Lydia

**FOMOD** - `Unofficial Skyrim SE Patch`.

## [Boethiah for Good Guys](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/329?tab=files)

**Main files** - Main File

Wanted to leave some comments here and there for the future, when you
will learn what mods do.

*I know, I know, you can make debates about this mod being immersive or
not. But you can kick Boethiah out of their cloud of thinking that
everyone is just going to murder for them alone and at the same time not
kill our improved followers. Win-win situation for me.*

## [Thieves Guild For Good Guys](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10745?tab=files)

**Main files** - Thieves Guild For Good Guys - Taking Care of Business
Redux 4.0

*Finally you can put Maven in her place too - that is good enough for
me. Not even talking about Thieves Guild becoming something more than
just a bunch of ordinary thieves united.*

## [Opulent Thieves Guild](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/931?tab=files)

**Main files** - Opulent Thieves Guild

## [Adoption Without Murder](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/46741?tab=files)

**Main files** - Adoption without Murder

## [Dark Brotherhood Reborn - Dawnstar Sanctuary](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/22070?tab=files)

**Main files** - Dark Brotherhood Reborn - Dawnstar Sanctuary

## [Dark Brotherhood Reborn - Patches, Tweaks and Enhancements](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/34909?tab=files)

**Main files** - Dark Brotherhood Reborn - Patch Collection FOMOD

**FOMOD** - `USSEP, Save The Dark Brotherhood (SSE), The Dark Brotherhood
of Old, general Tweaks`.

## [Save The Dark Brotherhood](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/33461?tab=files)

**Main files** - Save the Dark Brotherhood 1.1

*Unfortunately, it won’t be canon, but let’s be honest - without at
least a bunch of the members, The Dark Brotherhood feels like The Dark
Dragonborn, so give me a chance to save more of the members especially
considering the previous mod we have added.*

## [The Brotherhood of Old](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/15322?tab=files)

**Main files** - SSE - The Brotherhood of Old - Version 1.1.0

## [Castle Volkihar Rebuilt](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/324?tab=files)

**Main files** - SSE - Castle Volkihar Rebuilt

## [Serana Dialogue Edit](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/16222?tab=files)

**Main files** - SeranaDialogEdit v 102

## [Serana Dialogue Add-On](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/32161?tab=files)

**Main files** - Serana Dialogue Add-On SE

**Optional files** - SDA Serana Dialogue Edit Patch

## [Cannibal Draugr on Solstheim](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/21238?tab=files)

**Main files** - Cannibal Draugr on Solstheim

## [Briraka's Draugr Overhaul - Cannibal Draugr Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/26188?tab=files)

**Optional files** - BriDO - Cannibal Draugr Patch

## [Blood Horker](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/13938?tab=files)

**Main files** - Blood Horker

## [Grahl - The Ice Troll](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/9311?tab=files)

**Main files** - Grahl - The Ice Troll - 4K

## [Solstheim Lighthouse](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/14329?tab=files)

**Main files** - Solstheim Lighthouse v1.2 ESL

**Instructions** - rename the mod’s plugin to `SolstheimLighthouse.esp`.

## [Solstheim - Skaal Fishing Camp](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/14450?tab=files)

**Main files** - Solstheim - Skaal Fishing Camp

## [Miraak - Dragonborn Follower](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19829?tab=files)

**Main files** - Miraak - Dragonborn Follower SE

*Just imagine the Naruto redemption arc (unfortunately not canon too).
It is just too good to be left out.*

## [Miraak Follower Dialogue Plus](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25566?tab=files)

**Main files** - Miraak Dialogue Plus

## [Miraak - Dragonborn Follower Dialogue Overhaul](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40330?tab=files)

**Main files** - Miraak - Dragonborn Follower SE (Dialogue Overhaul)

## [Miraak Husbando](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/22063?tab=files)

**Main files** - Miraak Husbando

**Optional files** - Miraak Husbando - No Outfit Edits

**Merge** - Merge both files.

*Well, he is one of the main villains of the game (and possibly the
follower), so he, like all others, deserves attention too. What is funny
is that he looks very similar to my nord character preset, just
younger.*

## [Helgen Reborn](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/5673?tab=files)

**Main files** - Helgen Reborn SSE Version 106 With bsa file

## [Moon and Star](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4301?tab=files)

**Main files** - Moon and Star

**Optional files** -Immersion Patch

## [Moon and Star - Cleaned Plugin Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/28530?tab=files)

**Main files** - MoonAndStar - Cleaned and USSEP Compatible

## [Moon and Star Fixes](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/27434?tab=files)

**Main files** - Moon and Star (MAS) Books Fix

**Main files** - Moon and Star (MAS) Landscapes Fixes

## [Moonpath to Elsweyr](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4341?tab=files)

**Main files** - Moonpath to Elsweyr SSE

## [Unofficial Moonpath to Elsweyr Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/15882?tab=files)

**Main files** - Unofficial Moonpath to Elsweyr Patch v1.5.0

## [Moonpath to Elsweyr Navmesh Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25714?tab=files)

**Hidden** - skip this mod for now.

**Main files** - Moonpath to Elsweyr Navmesh Fix

## [Moonpath of Elsweyr - Music - Sky and Lightning Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/18683?tab=files)

**Main files** - Moonpath Music - Sky and Light fix - Merged 1.3

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10917?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim Bruma SE 1.3.3

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim DLC Integration Patch

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma NPC Eye Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/26116?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim Bruma SE 1.3.3 - NPC EYE Fix - Done

## [Nordic Faces - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Facegen](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40658?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - FaceGen - Beyond Skyrim Bruma

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Tweaks, Enhancements and Patches](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19374?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Tweaks Enhancements and Patches
SSE 1.7

**FOMOD** - `Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition Patch ESPLite`.

## [Bruma Ugly Love Script Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/52506?tab=files)

**Main files** - BS-Bruma Ugly Love Script Fix

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Location Styled Crafting](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/23089?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim Bruma Craft Restrictions

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Corrections](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/33748?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Corrections

## [Bruma - Frostcrag Spire Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25161?tab=files)

**Main files** - Frostcrag Spire fix

## [CleverCharff's Bruma](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/41316?tab=files)

**Main files** - CleverCharff's Bruma 2K

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Upscaled Textures](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/34413?tab=files)

**Main files** - BSBUT_Armor_4x

**Main files** - BSBUT_Clothes_4x

**Main files** - BSBUT_Weapons_4x

**Merge** - merge all files.

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Tree LOD Billboards](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/29386?tab=files)

**Main files** - Billboards for Beyond Skyrim Bruma

## [Imperial City LOD for Beyond Skyrim - Bruma](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/11010?tab=files)

**Main files** - Whitegoldtowerfix

## [Majestic Bruma Mountains - MM 3.x Beyond Skyrim Bruma Compatibility Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/53152?tab=files)

**Main files** - Majestic Mountains - Bruma Patch

## [Realistic Water Two - Bruma Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/35744?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - Beyond Skyrim Bruma Patch v1.0

## [IDDP - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4126?tab=files)

**Optional files** - IDDP - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Patch

**Delete** - remove `AHZBetterDGEntranceSE - BSHeartland
Patch.modgroups`.

## [Bruma Lighting Mod Compatibility Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/48389?tab=files)

**Main files** - BS Bruma Interior Lighting Compatibility Patch

## [Bruma Signs - SMIM Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10924?tab=files)

**Main files** - Bruma SE Signs SMIMed

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Gemling Queen Jewelry Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/35876?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma with Gemling Queen Jewelry

## [Apothecary - Bruma Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/52130?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - Apothecary - Bruma Patch

## [Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Moonpath to Elsweyr Synergy Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/11069?tab=files)

**Main files** - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Moonpath to Elsweyr Synergy Patch
v2.4.0

## [The Forgotten City](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/1179?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Forgotten City

## [The Forgotten City Entrance](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25730?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Forgotten City Entrance

## [Bruma and Forgotten City Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/27573?tab=files)

**Main files** - Bruma and Forgotten City Patch

## [Darkend](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10423?tab=files)

**Main files** - DarkenD 1.4 SSE

**Update files** - FaceGenData 1.4 Meshes and Textures.

**Update files** - Missing walls hotfix.

**Merge** - merge all files.

## [Darkend Balance Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/29213?tab=files)

**Main files** - Darkend Balance Patch

## [Clockwork](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4155?tab=files)

**Main files** - Clockwork_SSE_v1-0

## [Clockwork Plantable Add-On](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40875?tab=files)

**Main files** - Clockwork Plantable Addon

## [Project AHO](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/15996?tab=files)

**Main files** - Project AHO (EN)

**Optional files** - Project AHO ESM Flag Edition

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Unofficial Project AHO Bugfix and Improvement Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/41751?tab=files)

**Main files** - Project AHO Bugfix and Improvement Patch

**Update files** - Table Mesh Fix

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Project AHO - Start When You Want](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/21386?tab=files)

**Optional files** - Project AHOPatch SE - ESL Flagged File

## [Project AHO - ENB Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/36199?tab=files)

**Main files** - Project AHO ENB Patch v0.1

## [Project AHO - Mysticism - A Magic Overhaul Spell Crafting Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/16564?tab=files)

**Optional files** - Project AHO - Mysticism - A Magic Overhaul Spell
Crafting Patch

## [The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4509?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal

## [The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal - HD Pack](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/7644?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Grey Cowl of Nocturnal SE - HD Texture pack

## [The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal - Alikr Flora Overhaul](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10141?tab=files)

**Main files** - Gray Cowl of Nocturnal - Alikr Flora Overhaul

**Optional files** - Gray Fox Flora Overhaul Tree Billboard LODGEN Kit

**Instructions** - download the optional file manually and drop it into
your *MO2 Downloads* folder, the fille will appear in your *Downloads*
tab in MO2, right click on it and select *Query Info*, then merge the
file with the main one.

## [The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal - Add-Ons and Patches](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19724?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal SE - Addons and Patches 1.2

**FOMOD** - `Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition Patch, Delayed Start
Patch, Weapons Armor Clothing and Clutter Fixes Patch`.

## [The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal Combo](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/17831?tab=files)

**Main files** - Gray Cowl of Nocturnal Combo Mod

## [The Tools of Kagrenac](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/14168?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Tools of Kagrenac V1.58 SSE 

## [The Wheels of Lull](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/748?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Wheels of Lull SE Unwound Edition

**FOMOD** - Don’t choose anything, just install.

## [Carved Brink](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/24351?tab=files)

**Main files** - Carved Brink (EN)

**Optional files** - Carved Brink ESM Flag Edition

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Unofficial Carved Brink Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/36916?tab=files)

**Main files** - Unofficial Carved Brink Patch

## [Carved Brink Generic Assets Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25791?tab=files)

**Main files** - Carved Brink Generic Assets Replacer (Stranger Mask and
Corrupted Shade) ESL

## [Wyrmstooth](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45565?tab=files)

**Main files** - Wyrmstooth

## [Wyrmstooth Upscaled Textures](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/39992?tab=files)

**Main files** - Wyrmstooth_2x

## [Lanterns Of Wyrmstooth](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/47782?tab=files)

**Main files** - Lanterns Of Wyrmstooth

**Instructions** - Install the mod, double click on *Lanterns of
Wyrmstooth 1.00*, then right-click *Data* folder and select *Set as data
directory*, click *OK*.

## [Realistic Water Two - Wyrmstooth Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/35744)

**Miscellaneous files** - Wyrmstooth Patch v1.0

## [Forceful Tongue - Wyrmstooth Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/36276?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - Forceful Tongue - Wyrmstooth Patch

## [Apothecary - Wyrmstooth Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/52130?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - Apothecary - Wyrmstooth Patch

## [Dragon War - Wyrmstooth Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/51310?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - Dragon War - Wyrmstooth Patch

## [Identity Crisis](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/39634?tab=files)

**Main files** - Identity Crisis

**Optional files** - Better Dawnguard Entrance Patch

**Optional files** - Beyond Skyrim - Bruma Patch

## [The Grand Paladin - 2021](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/46867?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Grand Paladin - 2021

## [The Final Cataclysm - 2020](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/33167?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Final Cataclysm - MMXX

**Optional files** - The Final Cataclysm - MMXX (Update)

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Artifacts - The Tournament of the Ten Bloods](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/15264?tab=files)

**Main files** - Tournament of the Ten Bloods 2.1

**FOMOD** - `2K Resolution, No Flame Effect`.

**Update files** - HOTFIX - Sounds

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Artifacts - The Ice Blade of the Monarch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/13972?tab=files)

**Main files** - Ice Blade of the Monarch 2.6

**FOMOD** - `2K Resolution, No trail Mist`.

## [FaceGen Output for Different Mods](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/24174?tab=files)

**Optional files** - FaceGen Output for Random Mods

## [INIGO](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/1461?tab=files)

**Main files** - INIGO_V2.4C SE

## [Inigo Whistle Key](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/29406?tab=files)

**Main files** - InigoWhistleKeyV12

## [Mr. Dragonfly ENB Particle Light](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45664?tab=files)

**Main files** - Mr. Dragonfly ENB Particle Lights

**FOMOD** - `Teal (My preference)`.

## [The Phoenix Flavour - Inigo Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/14223?tab=files)

**Optional files** - The Phoenix Flavour - Inigo Patch

## [High-Poly Inigo Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/38860?tab=files)

**Main files** - High-Poly Inigo Replacer - FOMOD installer

**FOMOD** - `Custom Saeri Hair - Blue`.

## [Lucien - Immersive Fully Voiced Male Follower](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/20035?tab=files)

**Main files** - Lucien

**Optional files** - Lucien - Moon and Star Patch

**Optional files** - Lucien - Moonpath to Elsweyr Patch

## [Lucien Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/38116?tab=files)

**Main files** - ---Lucien Replacer SE Younger Face version

## [Kaidan 2](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19075?tab=files)

**Main files** - Kaidan 2.1.1

## [Kaidan 2 Visual Overhaul - High Poly Head](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/47923?tab=files)

**Main files** - Kaidan V.1

**Optional files** - Kaidan Underwear Patch

**Merge** - Merge both files.

## [Gladys the Corgi - A Custom Dog Follower Mod](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/50164?tab=files)

**Main files** - Gladys the Corgi - A Custom Dog Follower Mod

## [The Falkreath Hauntings](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/20733?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Falkreath Hauntings

**Optional files** - Moon and Star patch

## [The Sinister Seven](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19178?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Sinister Seven SSE 1.2

## [Apachii Divine Elegance Store](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/9213?tab=files)

**Main files** - Apachii_Divine_Elegance_SSE_v\_1_9

**Optional files** - ApachiiDivineEleganceStore_USSEP_Patch_new

**Optional files** -
ApachiiDivineElegance_SSE\_\_Fix_AlphaRougeMale_v\_1_9

**Optional files** - Apachii_DE_SSE_Khajiit_Fix

**Optional files** - Apachii_DE_SSE_MaleOutfit_Meshes_Fixes

*I have added this to be a resource for making different screenshots. Of
course, you can also use all those outfits etc. to make your character
just prettier. There are things for everyone to play with, even
warriors.*

## [THE TINIEST SHACK](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/46874?tab=files)

**Main files** - THE TINIEST OF SHACKES fix'd

## [Rayek's End](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/8285?tab=files)

**Optional files** - Rayek's End - SSE Expanded Edition 1.7 (Medium)

**Optional files** - Barenziah's Glory SE - Patch (Removes floating
gems)

## [Rayek's End - Hearthfire Multiple Adoptions Support](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/36877?tab=files)

**Main files** - Rayek's End Multiple Hearhfire Adoptions Support

## [The Scrivener's Croft](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44701?tab=files)

**Main files** - The Scrivener's Croft

## [Ruska - Riften Player Home](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/16177?tab=files)

**Main files** - Ruska SE

## [Knight's Rest](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19793?tab=files)

**Main files** - Knight's Rest

## [Hermit Mountain Cottage](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4093?tab=files)

**Main files** - Hermit Mountain Cottage SE V6.0a

## [Wind Path](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/15192?tab=files)

**Main files** - Wind Path SSE 1.3.1

## [Morskom Estate](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/33408?tab=files)

**Main files** - Morskom Estate 1.2

## [Windyridge - Player Home in Winterhold](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/8046?tab=files)

**Main files** - Windyridge - Player home in Winterhold 1.04

## [Red Rose Mill](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/47117?tab=files)

**Optional files** - Red Rose Mill

## [Wuth Rein](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/52995?tab=files)

**Main files** - Wuth Rein 

## [Interesting NPCs (3DNPC)](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/29194?tab=files)

**Main files** - Interesting NPCs SE - BSAs

**Update files** - Interesting NPCs SE - 4.3.6 to 4.4 Hotfix

**Miscellaneous files** - Interesting NPCs SE - AI Overhaul SSE Patch

## [Nordic Faces - Interesting NPCs Facegen](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40658?tab=files)

**Miscellaneous files** - FaceGen - Interesting NPCs

## [3DNPC - Art and Sacrifice Aggression Bug Fix](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45496?tab=files)

**Main files** - 3DNPC Art and Sacrifice Script Fix

## [Interesting NPCs and WACCF Outfits Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/31858?tab=files)

**Main files** - Interesting NPCs and WACCF Outfits Patch

## [Interesting NPCs - Zora Fair-Child Voice Enhanced](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/27448?tab=files)

**Main files** - Zora VO

## [Cuyima Interesting NPCs](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/27330?tab=files)

**Main files** - Cuyima Interesting NPCs SE - Custom Hair

## [Interesting NPCs Visual Overhaul](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40046?tab=files)

**Main files** - Interesting NPCs Visual Overhaul

## [Undeath Remastered](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/6180?tab=files)

**Main files** - Skyrim - Undeath SSE 1.7

## [Undeath - Classical Lichdom](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40802?tab=files)

**Main files** - Undeath Classical Lichdom

**Optional files** - Hishy's Undeath Cleaner Script Improved

**Instructions** - Unfortunately, *Undeath Remastered* should be cleaned
in xEdit to make it run correctly with other mods. Extract contents of
the optional file into your xEdit’s *Edit Scripts* folder. Open xEdit
using MO2, find *Undeath.esp*, right click on it and choose *Apply
Script…* In category *Script* find *Hishy_UndeathCleaner* and choose it.
Press *OK*. After xEdit finishes cleaning, don’t forget to make sure that
changes are saved.

## [Moon and Star - Undeath Remastered Patch](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/19068?tab=files)

**Main files** - Moon and Star - Undeath Remastered Patch

---

# APPAREL & WEAPONS

Nothing much as you will get plenty of goodies from new and old quests -
just some new weapons to our favourite NPCs to show their status and
power and different looking variants of gear for players.

Create a separator and name it `APPAREL & WEAPONS EXTENDED` and place it
directly below the *APPAREL & WEAPONS* separator (and its mods). Change
its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

You will need to make an account on another modding website (yes, there
isn’t just *Nexus*, but not many other services are as reliable) called
[VectorPlexus](https://vectorplexus.com/), because three mods,
which we need for completion of the add-on, are available only from
there. Be warned that much content there is NSFW related, so if you
don’t want to see that, just make an account and follow my instructions.

While you are logged in and when you will open a link to the website
from here, there will be a button *Download this file*. If mod has
different versions, there will be instructions on which one to get like
always.

## [Elemental Staffs](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/5319)

**Main files** - Elemental Staffs SE

**Optional files** - Elemental Staffs SE Basic

**Merge** - Merge both files.

*Alters the appearance of almost all staffs to appear more like they are
imbued with the power of magic we are actually using them for.*

## [KD Circlets Redone by zzjay](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/10320)

**Main files** - KD Cirlets by zzjay main file

*At first, I wasn’t a fan, because if we compare this mod to JS Circlet
Replacer, the replacer is definitely the winner, but after looking more
at some of these minimalistic and sweet circlets, I have decided that a
bunch of people will use them. They can be obtained only by crafting at
forge.*

## [Heavy Armored Pants](https://vectorplexus.com/files/file/404-heavy-armored-pants/)

*You will be able to get these in exchange for their counterparts (heavy
armors) in Skyrim. Just use any forge for that. Tempered the same way as
any other armor, pants have the same stats as their counterparts.*

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37147270/130328192-84efd439-a1bd-4893-a77d-989d9c48799c.png)
*(ft. mods in Appearance section)*

## [Royal Armory - New Artifacts](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/6994)

**Main files** - Royal Armory V2.2

## [PrivateEye’s Royal Armory - Reforged](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/28006)

**Main files** - Royal Armory - Reforged - Main Replacer 1.1

**Optional files** - Dragonfang - Penitus Logo

**Optional files** - Hafyllbrand - Custom Textures

**Optional files** - Sword of Dragonsreach - Custom Textures

**Merge** - Merge all files.

## [Royal Armory - New Artifacts Plugin Replacer](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44392)

**Main files** - Royal Armory - Replacer

**FOMOD** - `Obscure’s College of Winterhold - Cell Setting Patch`.

--- 

# MISCELLANEOUS

﻿This category's mods are focused on adding some quality of life tools
and changes to the game. In many situations, these mods won't even
bother you in any way if you aren't actually using them, so I decided
not to make this section optional as it isn't intrusive as *INTERFACE*,
which changes things you will always see (and I don't want to make
separate patches for this bulky section).

Create a separator and name it *MISCELLANEOUS EXTENDED* and place it
directly below the *MISCELLANEOUS* separator (and its mods). Change its
colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

﻿All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

## powerofthree's [Papyrus Extender](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/22854)

**Main files** - Papyrus Extender SSE - 4.4.2

*Plugin that extends Skyrim's script language (Papyrus) functionality.
It will be needed for Strange Runes to use another version of runes for
dual-casted spells.*

##  

## UIExtensions

**Main files** - UIExtensions v1-2-0

*Resource for modders to use to make custom menus for their mods. We
will need it for AddItemMenu mod.*

## Custom Skills Framework

**Main files** - Custom Skills Framework v1

*.NET Script Framework’s plugin for making custom skill trees for our
character, will be used for a mod, which will greatly enhance gameplay
with shouts together with Forceful Tongue - Shouts Overhaul.*

## HDT-SMP (Skinned Mesh Physics)

**Main files** - HDT-SMP for SSE 1.5.97 v2.11

*SKSE plugin, which will allow us to use physics for our PC, like in our
scenario, with moving hair. Bonk people, who thought about something
else.*

## Mfg Fix

﻿**Main files** - MfgFix

*Just a couple of fixes for Skyrim’s facial animation scripts, which
will be needed by Conditional Expressions.*

## Copy and Paste in Console

**Main files** - Copy and Paste in Console v1.0.1 for Skyrim SE

**INI** - In line 2, change PasteKeyCode to 47, so you will need
standard Ctrl+V command to paste something to your console.

*A neat functionality in one mod (very weird that Bethesda haven't
thought about adding it, well, like always), which you will probably use
from time to time.*

## Official Unique Flowers and Plants

**Optional files** - Unique Flowers and Plants for Skyrim SE DLC
Compatible ESM Version

**Hide** - hide *JuniperBush.nif* and *SloeBush.nif by right-clicking
the mod, then choosing the Conflicts tab, selecting two files on the
Winning file conflicts section, right-clicking on them and choosing
Hide.*

*Adds different beautiful hand-placed flowers and plants around Skyrim
to make it more interesting and picturesque. ESM plugin allows us not to
worry about the mod overwriting anything we don't want to.*

## Cathedral - 3D Mountain Flowers

**Main files** - Cathedral - 3D Mountain Flowers

**Hide (not now, later, when you will get to the *CONFIGURATIONS*
section)** - hide any file, which overwrites Fixed Mesh Lightning. Don’t
worry, there will be mention of these instructions in the
*CONFIGURATIONS* section.

*Who would even like to look at vanilla mountain flowers, if we have
these.*

## A Patch for Skyrim Landscape and Water Fixes and Cathedral Mountain Flowers

**Main files** - A Patch for Skyrim Landscape and Water Fixes and
Cathedral Mountain Flowers

**Optional files** - A Patch for Lanterns of Skyrim II and Cathedral
Mountain Flowers

## More Growable Plants

**Optional files** - More Growable Plants Simple 1.5

**Hide (not now, later, when you will get to the CONFIGURATIONS
section)** - hide any file, which overwrites Fixed Mesh Lightning.

*Still no idea where citizens of Skyrim get their apples, tomatoes,
garlic and many other things from, but at least we know where we can get
them from. And don’t worry, I have patched it, so you will be able to
grow only things I consider to be immersive to be grown.*

## 3D Mountain Flowers Hearthfire Planters Fix

**Main files** - More Growable Plants_3D Mountain Flowers patch

##  

## Bright Waterfall Fix for ENB

**Main files** - Bright Waterfall Fix for Realistic Water Two

**Optional files** - DynDOLOD Bright LOD Waterfall Fix

**Merge** - Merge both files.

*I can’t stand waterfalls being too bright at night.*

## Particle Lights for ENB - Nordic Ruins Candles

**Main files** - Particle Lights for ENB - Nordic Ruins Candles

*Where is a petition that everything needs to be patched for ENB to look
magnificent? I would have signed it.*

## Strange Runes

**Main files** - Strange Runes

**Update files** - Strange Runes

**Merge** - Merge both files.

*Great for screenshots and makes magic feel even more unique. MCM (Mod
Configuration Menu) available, so you can make them appear only for some
specific spell group etc. You need it! Just look at my
character.*<img src="media/image2.png" style="width:6.66719in;height:3.73536in" />

## [Dragonborn Presence](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/25287)

**Main files** - Dragonborn Presence

**Instructions** - Install the mod, right-click *Data* folder and select
*Set as data directory*, click *Ok*. Right-click the mod in your
*Downloads* tab and select *Open File*, move *discord-rpc.dll* file to
the game's root folder.

*Allows your friends in Discord to see that you are actually really busy
looting Nazeem's house.*

## The Elder Scrolls Legends - Loading Screens

**Main files** - TESL - Loading Screens

**FOMOD** - choose your monitor’s aspect ratio, then an option to make
new loading screens appear for all time (100%).

*Replaces stale, not eye-catching loading screens with new ones with
lore-friendly artwork of Skyrim and what it has to offer. At least
people, who have to wait longer on them, will be pleased.*

## TESL Loading Screens - Tweaks and Addons

**Main files** - TESL LS - Tweaks and Addons -VIGOROUS-

**FOMOD** - choose your monitor’s aspect ratio, don’t change anything
else.

*Adds even more loading screens for the last mod, fixes some typos.*

## Look What You See

**Main files** - Look what you see

**FOMOD** - ESL.

**Instructions** - rename the mod’s plugin to *TissHeadTrack.esp* .

**If you installed Alternate Conversation Camera** - go to Alternate
Conversation Camera's INI, in line 47, change bConversationHT to 0.

*Head tracking mod, which makes our player character (PC) observe
things, which we move our cursor on.*

## First Person Camera Height Fix

﻿**Main files** - First Person Camera Height Fix

*Who would have thought that High Elves are actually high. I thought
they just named themselves like that. One other mod, which we will
install later, will greatly help us in using this mod’s capabilities.*

## Diziet's [Auto Outfits](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/40801)

**Main files** - Diziet's Auto Outfits

**FOMOD** - don’t change anything.

*The mod makes you automatically change your outfit according to
different conditions, which can be configured inside the mod's MCM. For
example, I use it to change my default gear to ordinary clothing with
speech etc. enchantments for traders, when I am inside big cities.
Otherwise I will probably forget to do that.*

## Serio's Cycle Hotkeys

**Main files** - Serio's Cycle Hotkeys﻿

*Makes it possible to adjust one hotkey to equip not just one spell or
option, but different sets of things. For instance, if I am a mage, I
can use my first hotkey to equip Ice Storm spell in both hands and Ice
Form shout to battle with melee enemies, then press my second hotkey to
get my ward spell and Thunderbolt to deal with that pesky bandit mage.
You can set whatever buttons you want as these hotkeys. Pretty detailed
instructions on how to use the mod can be found in the mod's page.*

## Hide Your Quests

**Main files** - Hide Your Quests 1.0.1

*Successor of the mod Hide Those Futile Quests, which gives you an
option to hide a quest you will do later from your journal by using
MCM.*

## Forget Spell

**Main files** - Forget Spell

**FOMOD** - Skyrim Special Edition, SkyUI.

*Another neat addition - allows us to forget spells we won't use
anymore. Why would I need to clutter my menu with Flames, while I am
level 80 mage. You will see an option to forget spells in your spells
menu.*

## AddItemMenu - Ultimate Mod Explorer

**Main files** - AddItemMenuSE_114_SKSE2019

*A mod, which makes it possible to test all items other mods have to
offer inside their plugins. I hope you won’t use it for cheating.*

## Sweeping Organizes Stuff - Use Broom to Clean Mess

**Main files** - Sweeping Organizes Stuff - Use Broom to Clean Mess

*Let's say you accidentally pressed your shout button in your home or
just wanted to make some chaos, now you can clean the mess by using a
broom from your inventory.*

## Hearthfire Multiple Adoptions and Custom Home Support

**Main files** - Hearthfire Multiple Adoptions and Custom Home Support
SE

*Not only allows you to adopt more children, but also to bring your
spouse and kids to the new houses we have added.*

## Dragon Claws Auto-Unlock

**Main files** - Dragon Claws Auto-Unlock (Simultaneous)

*I don’t want to check these claw combinations again and again. It was
fun, when Skyrim was a new game for me.*

## No Lock Picking

**Main files** - NoLockPicking v2

*Removes the lock picking mini-game (annoying) from the game and now
actually uses your lockpicking skill to open doors and chests.*

## BlockSteal

**Main files** - Blocksteal_010_SKSE2017

*Prevents you from stealing, when you aren’t in stealth mode, so you
won’t get punished by just wanting to take another item, which that
annoying, but expensive cup was near. There is also an option to press
on items multiple times, which is configurable through MCM.*

## Scion - Vampiric Sunscreen Plugin

**Main files** - Scion - Vampiric Sunscreen Plugin

*If you wear any type of headgear, while being outdoors, like our
vampire friend Serana does, you won’t be destroyed by sun damage.*

##  

## Dragonborn - Shouts Perk Tree

**Main files** - Dragonborn - Shouts Perk Tree

**Miscellaneous files** - Dragonborn - Adamant Patch

*Being Dragonborn and being able to shout should make us more unique
than other characters, and this mod does that by giving us experience
and perk points for shouting and killing dragons and a unique skill tree
for spending these.*

## Smart NPC Potions - Enemies Use Potions and Poisons

**Main files** - Smart NPC Potions

*Finally bandits, mages and assassins will also have an option to have
and use some potions. And not just healing potions, which they already
use, to make our lives a little bit harder. Everything, for instance, a
chance of them having a potion, is configurable by MCM.*

## 

## Don't Stay in The Water

**Main files** - Don't Stay in The Water

*Now you won’t be able to “outsmart” your enemies by going into water.*

## 

##  

## Simply Knock

**Main files** - Simply Knock SE 1.0.3 Release

*I find it immersive that we can get to our good friend to say that we
saved his family friend during the night, not to wait for 8 hours, when
she will wake up. Or to check if people are home for sneaky shenanigans.
This mod allows us to do that.*

## Simply Knock SKSE64 DLL

**Main files** - SimplyKnockSE SKSE64 2.0.19 DLL

*An update for the mod to work.*

## A Guiding Light - Clairvoyance Reimagined

**Main files** - Guiding Wisp

**Delete** - remove *GuidingLight.modgroups* .

*Finally makes Clairvoyance spell useful by making it summon a wisp that
leads you to your quest objective.*

## Gildergreen Regrown

**Main files** - Gildergreen Regrown

*That’s a little bit stupid than in vanilla you don’t get to see the new
Gildergreen growing from the sapling. Let’s change that.*

## Angi's Camp Tweaks

**Main files** - Angi's Camp Tweaks

*Quality of life changes for Agni’s training session.*

## More Werewolves

**Main files** - More Werewolves

*Yes, more werewolves will be in Skyrim, so be attentive especially when
traversing the area around Morthal.*

**FOMOD** - Standalone version, RFYL patch.

## 

## Canis Hysteria - The Werewolf Disease

**Main files** - Canis Hysteria

**FOMOD** - Improved Companions - Questline Tweaks.

## *Finally you can become a werewolf without joining the Companions if you aren’t the type in the immersive way.*

##  

## Werewolf Aela

**Main files** - Werewolf Companions v1.3 FOMOD

**FOMOD** - no facial edits, Aela’s transformation only for 3 minutes
and 45 minutes cooldown.

*Has it always bothered you that Companions can’t turn into werewolves
or do that only during Companions quests? Well, me too. This mod makes
Aela transform into werewolf, if she is badly hurt. Aela will always
want to stay as werewolf, not like Farkas and Vilkas, who can be cured,
so I have decided that it will be enough just with her.*

## DIVERSE SKYRIM

**Main files** - DIVERSE SKYRIM SSE

*Skyrim isn’t just for Nords, it is for everyone. Groups like bandits,
mages etc. will also include some Khajiits, Argonians from time to time
etc.*

## DIVERSE SKYRIM - Cathedral NPCs Facegen Patch

**Main files** - DIVERSE SKYRIM - Cathedral NPCs Facegen Patch

*And let’s also fix them and make them better to look at.*

## Diverse Skyrim - Battle of Whiterun Fix

**Main files** - Diverse Skyrim Battle of Whiterun Fix

## Civil War Neutrality

**Main files** - CWN - Civil War Neutrality SSE

*Let Stormcloaks and the Empire play their own games, while being
neutral, but getting your deserved reward.*

## Catir’s [College Creatures](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/44557)

**Main files** - Catir's College Creatures

*Now you will actually need to use magic to beat the College of
Winterhold quest line. You have been warned, don’t sneak peek at the
description of the mod.*

## End Times

**Main files** - End Times SE

*Now try to do everything else, but not the main quest. I dare you. If
you don’t listen then your game will be over.*

# MUSIC & SOUND FX (optional)

Create a separator and name it *MUSIC & SOUND FX EXTENDED* and place it
directly below the *SOUND FX* separator (and its mods). Change its
colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

﻿All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

﻿This category's mods are optional - you can just skip the category. You
can use whatever mods you like, which are before a horizontal line, but
you will need to install all of the music mods, which are behind the
line, if you want everything to work correctly. Music is actually the
same one Phoenix offers in her TPF-X, so all credit goes to those
wonderful people, who made it, and Phoenix for finding these pearls and
making a patch for them.

## Talkative Dragons

**Main files** - Talkative Dragons

*For species, which can actually speak the way that humans understand,
dragons in the game don’t like to speak at all. Let’s change that.*

## Talkative Dragons - Audio Replacer

**Main files** - TDReplacer

*Just a little replacer for some voice lines in the original mods, which
sounded a little bit too silly.*

## Nordic Shouts - Enigma Series

**Main files** - Nordic Shouts - Enigma Series All In One-

*An author of the mod has done a great job with filters to make male
shouts sound better.*

## Better Sounding Female Dragon Shouts

**Main files** - HPFSV All in One

*Exactly.*

## BA Bard Songs

**Main files** - BA_BardSongs_FOMOD

**FOMOD** - AIO.

*Exactly x2. Don’t worry, they are also immersive.*

## Musical Lore - Soundtrack Mod by Nir Shor

**Main files** - Musical Lore V1.2

**Delete** - delete *NirShor-MusicalLore.esp*.

## The Northerner Diaries - Immersive Edition

**Main files** - The Northerner Diaries - Skyrim and Solstheim

**Delete** - delete *Northerner Diaries in Skyrim.esp*.

## Still - Skyrim Inspired Music

**Main files** - Still - ESP Version

**Delete** - delete *Still.esp*.

## Hun Lovaas - Skyrim Fan-Made Combat Music

**Main files** - Hun Lovaas - ESP version

**Delete** - delete *Hun Lovaas.esp*.

## Melodies of Civilization - Skyrim Fan-Made Music

**Main files** - Melodies of Civilization 1.01

**Delete** - delete *Melodies of Civilization.esp*.

## Around the Fire - Skyrim Fan-Made Music

**Main files** - Around the Fire

**Delete** - delete *Around the Fire.esp*.

## Dawnguard Music Overhaul - Skyrim Fan-Made Music

**Main files** - Dawnguard Music Overhaul - Main Module

**Main files** - Dawnguard Music Overhaul - Combat Module

**Instructions** - merge both files and then delete *Dawnguard Music
Overhaul.esp* and *Dawnguard Music Overhaul - Combat.esp* .

## Yet Another Music Merge

**Main files** - Yet Another Music Merge

*Phoenix’s merge of all the music mods as well as a patch combining
their tracks in the playlists.*

## TPF Dragon’s Edition - Quests & Music Patch

**Optional files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Quests & Music Patch

*A patch to make all these music mods work with music from one quest
mod.*

# APPEARANCE

Overall, I am happy with TPF’s appearance section, but the humanoid
player character’s skin texture choice is not as good as it doesn’t give
you many choices for experimenting (or maybe I just prefer other ones,
no idea), so I am changing that with different textures, by using which
everyone is probably going to find his or her favourite combinations to
play with. Other changes are there to diversify different races of
Skyrim’s population and make character creation a little bit more
interesting and even more time-consuming.

Create a separator and name it *APPEARANCE EXTENDED* and place it
directly below the *SKELETON & ANIMATIONS* separator (and its mods).
Change its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

## SavrenX [Vampire Lord Tank](https://vectorplexus.com/files/file/271-savrenx-vampire-lord-tank/)

*When I saw Harkon for the first time, well, it was a little bit sad
that Vampire Lord looks like a noodle. And with that mass, he probably
looked awkward, when he used melee combat against us. Let’s separate
Vampire Lords even more from senile ordinary vampires.*

## FK's Diverse Racial Skeletons

**Main files** - FK's Diverse Racial Skeletons

**Optional files** - FKDRS - Aetherius

*Successor of Racial Body Morphs (well, maybe its author will make an
update, who knows). Finally you will find out why we needed that First
Person Camera Height Fix. All races from this point will have their own
unique height and form, so wish some luck to Wood Elves at getting any
attention from HIGH Elves. And now you will think twice before touching
that big orc. Really lore-immersive mod.*

##  

## Tempered Skins for Males

**Main files** - Tempered Skins for Males - Dressed Version

**FOMOD** - A2 and F none, for other things you can choose whatever
options you like. My recommendations - B3 (people are living in Skyrim,
not Elsweyr), C3, D2, E1 (with this combination they don’t look too old
and at the same time not as teenagers).

*I guess Tempered Skins is my favourite mod series, when it comes to
appearance, as each of the skins for both males and females is so
customizable you won’t need any other mod. And that’s why I also give
you a choice to make in FOMOD.*

## Masculine Khajiit Textures

**Main files** - Grey Cat and Leopard Vanilla v1.1 - 2K Res Pack

**FOMOD** - Grey Cat, Abs.

*Yes, you have read it right. For one other mod to work correctly, we
will need to choose a different version of Masculine Khajiit Textures.
Rename it to just Masculine Khajiit Textures or Masculine Khajiit
Rextures - TPF Dragon’s Edition to install it as a separate mod.*

##  

## Masculine Argonian Textures

**Main files** - Masculine Chameleon and Lizard (Vanilla) 2K

**FOMOD** - Lizard, Heavy Scales.

*I don’t see anything too eye-catching from Forgotten Argonian Roots and
they don’t work with the mod, so let’s use argonian skin texture from
the same author, which textures we use for Khajiits.*

## Tempered Skins for Females

**Main files** - Tempered Skins for Females UNP and Vanilla

**FOMOD** - A7 and F none, for other things you can choose whatever
options you like. My recommendations - B01, C2, D1, E2.

## Feminine Khajiit Textures

**Main files** - Feminine Khajiit Textures (Grey Cat and Leopard)
Vanilla

**FOMOD** - 2K, Grey Cat, Abs.

## Feminine Argonian Textures

**Main files** - Feminine Argonian Textures (Chameleon and Lizard)
Vanilla

**FOMOD** - 2K, Lizard, Abs.

## Sandow Plus Plus - Ripped Bodies

**Main files** - Sandow Plus Plus - Ripped Bodies

**Main files** - Sandow Plus Plus - Ripped Bodies - Males

**Main files** - Sandow Plus Plus - Ripped Bodies - UNP

**FOMOD** - choose every option in all these 3 mods (exception is in one
place in the file for males, where you need to choose vanilla type of
body, then again every race).

*The weight slider in Racemenu will also make us more ripped, not just
bigger.*

## Just No Tails

**Main files** - Nooo Mooore Taiiiiiils

*Actually, before I really couldn't understand why people wanted to
remove tails from Khajiits and Argonians, but after playing with them
for some time now I do. Gear wasn’t made with them in mind (and it would
have been such a bother to do), so the sight of our tail clipping
through armor looks awkward. The best and the most easy solution is just
to hide tails.*

## Grimoas Plantigrade Feet For Beast Races

**Main files** - Grimoas Plantigrade Feet For Beast Races v 1_4

**Delete** - delete *Gri_BeastFeet.esp* .

*A resource from Skyrim LE to make our next mod work (thank you very
much).*

## Barefoot Beast Project (Greaves and [Legwraps for Plantigrade Feet)](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/45672)

**Main files** - Barefoot Beast Project

*Now we won’t need to imagine anymore how our poor Argonian puts those
little boots on.*

## 

## High Poly Head

High_Poly_Head_v1.4\_(SE).zip

**FOMOD** - BSA Only, Special Edition, Expressive Facegen Morphs,
Expressive Facial Animation (both), High Poly Vanilla Hair, Vampire Head
Fix, Symmetrical Eyes (Female).

*With this your dreams of making an even more perfect face for your
character shouldn't wait for long anymore.*

## KS Hairdos Lite

**Optional files** - KS Hairdos Lite SE NoNPCs

*Little fancy hair mod for us.*

## KS Hairdos - HDT SMP

**Main files** - KS Hairdos SMP

*New level of fanciness. People love hair with physics, so let them be.*

# ANIMATIONS

At first, you will need to change Simple Dual Sheath INI to make OUR
shield appear on the back, because later we will make our placement for
both our arrows’ and bolts’ quivers to be on our waistline’s back, which
I believe will look much better in this combination than vanilla
placement.

Like you can see in the screenshots, it looks much less clunky than a
bow being together with a quiver and clipping through each other and
much more likely than us carrying our shield in our hand for all day.

<img src="media/image3.png" style="width:2.23387in;height:3.22in" /><img src="media/image4.png" style="width:2.61727in;height:3.22125in" />

Overall through animations we will add more life and uniqueness into our
player character. NPCs are untouched by these different gear locations,
so we won’t have to worry about manually adjusting each NPC’s look. And,
as the obligatory part, the mods we are going to add will make us use
dual sheath animations.

**INI in Simple Dual Sheath** - In line 23, change *Flags* to
*Player\|FirstPerson*, then in line 38, change *DisableHideOnSit* to
*Player\|MountOnly*.

Create a separator and name it *ANIMATIONS EXTENDED* and place it
directly below the *APPEARANCE EXTENDED* separator (and its mods).
Change its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

## Undeath - XPMSSE - Strange Runes - Skeleton Patch

**Main files** - Undeath - XPMSSE - Strange Runes - Skeleton Patch

*If we don’t overwrite one of the XP32MSSE skeleton’s with this one, our
character in some scenarios would have been invisible and their spell
runes would have appeared near their feet, so let’s put it here.*

## Ultimate Combat and Creature Behaviour's Nemesis Compatibility

﻿**Main files** - Ultimate Combat and Creature Behaviour's Nemesis
Compatibility

## *Yeah, and some other utilities needed.*

**FOMOD** - don’t change anything.

## Dragon Priest Fix - Behaviour Overhaul

﻿**Main files** - Dragon Priest Fix - Behaviour Overhaul - ESL

## Optional files - Dragon Priest Behaviour Overhaul - Undeath Patch

## 

## Undead Summons Emerge from the Ground

﻿**Main files** - Undead summons emerge from the ground

*I know that undead work a little bit differently in the Elder Scrolls
universe, but it still doesn’t make sense for soul’s physical form to
appear out of thin air, so here we go.*

## Conditional Expressions - Subtle Face Animations

﻿**Main files** - Conditional Expressions

*Gives our character a bit of emotions, to finally make us not look like
a piece of living rock.*

## Jog & Sprint

﻿**Main files** - Jog Sprint and Jump

**Hide** - hide any file, which overwrites Jump Behavior Overhaul by
right-clicking the mod, then choosing the *Conflicts* tab, selecting all
the files on the *Winning file conflicts* section, where overwritten mod
includes *Jump Behavior Overhaul*, right-clicking on them and choosing
*Hide*.

*Realistic animations for sprinting and running.*

## Dynamic Swimming

﻿**Main files** - DAR - Dynamic Swimming

**Optional files** - DAR - Dynamic Swimming - Argonian Mastery

**Merge** - merge both files.

*Vanilla swimming animation looks shabby, so let it be used just for
people, who like to swim with heavy armour equipped.*

## Crouch Sliding

﻿**Main files** - Crouch Sliding Main

**Optional files** - Toned Down Slide Dust Effect

**Merge** - merge both files.

*When you are running around and suddenly see enemies or just want to
hide behind cover as soon as you can, just press your sneaking button
while sprinting.*

## Crouch Sliding - Remove Ragdolling for Good

﻿**Main files** - Crouch Sliding - Remove Ragdolling for Good

*Removes one overpowered mechanic from the previous mod, so you won’t
even know that it was there in the first place.*

## TK Dodge

﻿**Main files** - TK Dodge SE

**Main files** - Replace to Step Dodge

**Merge** - merge both files.

*Gives you an ability to sidestep, dodge attacks. Just press the
directional key two times to dodge in that direction. I chose the side
step version, because I don’t see characters with heavy armour rolling
around at all, even in this fantasy world, but sidestep is alright.*

## Thu'um - Fully Animated Shouts

﻿**Main files** - Thu'um - Animated Shouts

*Do you even need to ask me why? This is epic.*

## Magic Casting Animations Overhaul

﻿**Main files** - Magic Casting Animations Overhaul SSE

*Improvements for Skyrim’s third person animations.*

**FOMOD** - Cast damage, cast self and staff cast.

##  

## New Animation for Magic Casting

**Optional files** - New Animation for magic cast v0.8

**Hide** - hide *staffright_idle.hkx* and *staff_idle.hkx*.

## War Hammer and Battle Axe Movement Fix

﻿**Main files** - SSE Version

## Pretty Combat Animations

﻿**Main files** - Pretty Combat Animations 1.38

**FOMOD** - Style 01, Sneak Turn, Vanilla, Crossbow, Ranger, Slayer two
times, 2hm Block, 2hm Sprint.

## Pretty One-Handed Animations Overhaul

﻿**Main files** - PCA-1hm Overhaul 1.13c SSE

**FOMOD** - Guardian, choose *Skip* option 4 times, 1hm Block, 1hm
Sprint, Origin Dw Sprint_Type A.

## Blocking Animation Pack

﻿**Main files** - Blocking Animation Pack v1.5--SSE

##  

## First Person Magic Animation

﻿**Main files** - First Person Magic Animation for SSE

**FOMOD** - 01 Variant 1 FPMA 7.0.

*Improvements for our 1st person animations.*

## First Person Combat Animations Overhaul

﻿**Main files** - FPCAO2 - SIZE MATTERS SE ALL-IN-ONE 2.01

## 1st Person Parry Animation

**FOMOD** - 01, 02, 03.

﻿**Main files** - 1stPerson Parry Animation

# NPC OVERHAULS

﻿As you probably understood (I hope), this project definitely goes over
vanilla+ mark (of course, you are using all those mods, what do you even
talk about...) and I understand that too. With this category of mods I
just want Skyrim to look a little bit more classy, modern. It is a
fantasy game with magic, dragons, other mythical creatures and so many
things I will have to write millions of words to describe. Do you really
want to spend your money on a game to look at silly faces and then play
while looking at those, when you have an option to change that? And also
I believe that in my game - fantasy, where I decide what will happen -
everyone has the right to look decent and appealing to my eyes (don't
have any experience where someone criticized the "too good" looks of an
actress for a specific movie or character in a game). So here we go.

Create a separator and name it *NPC OVERHAULS* and place it directly
below the *FINAL PATCHES* separator (and its mods). Change its colour,
so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

In some scenarios we are going to hide some files from specific
overhauls, because even considering the fact I have sorted overhauls
relying on overall preference there are some exceptions I like more. For
example, I love Evette San’s look from a mod called *The* *Ordinary
Women,* but a mod called *Kalilies NPCs* is overwriting it with it’s own
looks. So to make Evette from The Ordinary Women appear we are hiding
her facegen files from Kalilies NPCs to make sure that the game loads
needed files and my custom made plugin for our overhauls makes sure that
The Ordinary Women wins the conflict on loads data of the Ordinary Women
correctly.

If you don't understand or want to know what will happen if you do
something incorrectly, here you go. You have probably heard about the
issue once or twice - black face bug. CTDs can happen if overhaul uses
unique body parts (like The Ordinary Women) and you enter into the place
where this *incorrect* NPC is.

<img src="media/image5.png" style="width:4.95075in;height:3.11979in" /><img src="media/image6.png" style="width:4.1969in;height:3.12in" />

## Shield Sisters Re-Imagined

﻿**Main files** - Shield Sisters Re-Imagined UNP

**Update files** - Iona Jordis Illia Hotfix

**Merge** - merge both files.

*One of the newest additions to NPC overhauls of Skyrim, which spices
things up. Has Bijin series’ mods vibes, but feels more unique.*

## Pandorable’s NPCs

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs SE

**FOMOD** - USSEP (Pandorable has probably forgotten to change name from
LE's Unofficial Patch in her FOMOD), no warpaint only for Voldsea.

*Pandorable's overhauls are definitely one of the best ones as they not
only cover the most notable NPCs of Skyrim, but also give each of them a
bit of charisma.*

## Pandorable's NPCs - Dawnguard

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Dawnguard SE - USSEP

##  

## Pandorable's NPCs - Dragonborn

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Dragonborn SE

**Optional files** - PAN_NPCs_DB - AI Overhaul patch

**FOMOD** - alternative for Fanari-Strong-Voice, Ralis Sedarys, Captain
Veleth, Wulf Wild-Blood, USSEP.

## Pandorable's NPCs - Males

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Males SE

**FOMOD** - alternative for Savos, Cicero, Larak, Madanach, USSEP.

## Pandorable's NPCs - Males 2

﻿**Main files** - PAN_NPCs - Males 2

**FOMOD** - alternative for Borkul the Beast, alternative 2 for Chief
Burguk, alternative for Chief Mauhulakh, Athis, Skjor, alternative 2 for
Vilkas and Farkas, alternative for Falion, Erik The Slayer, Unmid
Snow-Shod, USSEP.

##  

## Northbourne NPCs of the Rift

**Main files** - Northbourne NPCs of The Rift - Full Version

**Hide facegen files** - Double click on the mod in your mod order,
switch to *Conflicts* tab, at the right side of *Winning file conflicts*
there will be a filter, copy *000371d7* into it, hide two appeared
files. Do the same process with *0001541b*.

*Another newest NPC overhaul series, which I like the most right now,
because it has high poly faces and almost each of those looks diverse.*

## Northbourne NPCs of Winterhold

**Main files** - Northbourne NPCs of Winterhold Full Version

**Hide facegen files** - Hide *0001c19f* files.

## 

## Northbourne NPCs of Haafingar

**Main files** - Northbourne NPCs of Haafingar

**Hide facegen files** - Hide *0001326a* files.

##  

## The Ordinary Women

**Main files** - The Ordinary Women SSE 4.0

**Optional files** - The Ordinary Women SSE 4.0 USSEP - ESP Only

**Merge** - merge both files.

*Definitely the most immersive looks for women of Skyrim in all Nexus,
which slightly outshine blocky vanilla faces.*

## Northbourne NPCs of Falkreath Hold

**Main files** - Northbourne NPCs of Falkreath Hold - Full Version

**Hide facegen files** - Hide *0001bdb1* files.

## Northbourne NPCs of Whiterun Hold

**Main files** - Northbourne NPCs of Whiterun Hold - Full Version

**Hide facegen files** - Hide *0001a694, 0001a692, 0001a6d7, 0001a6d5,
000a2c8e* files.

##  

## Kalilies NPCs

﻿**Main files** - Kalilies NPCs

**FOMOD** - vanilla, no warpaint for Mena and Rhiada.

**Hide facegen files** - Hide *00013273* files.

*Something of a mix between Pandorable's NPCs and The Ordinary Women,
which covers NPCs that those two mods aren't touching and a little bit
more.*

## 

## Pandorable's Black-Briar Ladies

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's Black-Briar Ladies

**Optional files** - Ingun optional eyes

**Merge** - merge both files.

**Optional files** - AI Overhaul patch

##  

## Refined Volkihars

﻿**Main files** - Refined Volkihars SSE - The Fangs Update

**Optional files** - Cured Serana Patch **(don’t enable this, just
install)**

**FOMOD** - vanilla or UNP, orange eyes for all, fangs.

*In my opinion, the best Volkihar family overhaul, because they are so
much better than vanilla ones, but they still follow a vanilla
aesthetic.*

*You will need to enable the patch only after you cure Serana to make
her look like a human.*

## Hood Plus Hair for Pandorable's Serana

**Main files** - Hood Plus Hair for Pandorables Serana SHORT hair KS
Soundwave

*A present for Serana to make her hair visible, when she wears her hood.
Don’t worry that this is a mod for Pandorable’s Serana, they both have
the same hairstyle with this mod’s version.*

And now there will be many, many patches for our mod overhauls and the
mod *AI Overhaul* (which is dope by the way). I don’t know why, but
someone in Bethesda has thought that it would be a good idea that AI
data and character’s appearance data should be included in one record.
Thank Todd for that.

## Shield Sisters Re-Imagined - AI Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - Shield Sisters Re-Imagined - AI Overhaul Patch

## Updated USSEP - Pandorable's NPC Overhauls - AI Overhaul Patches' Compendium

**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - AI Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - Pandorable's NPCs - Dawnguard - AI Overhaul
Patch

**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Males - AI Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Males 2 - AI Overhaul Patch

## Pandorable's NPCs - Dragonborn - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch, which we have downloaded before, here (that
is below *Pandorable's NPCs - Males 2 - AI Overhaul Patch* in your MO2
left side). Moving on the left side doesn’t matter for patches, but I
just want everything to be in place and organized like it should be -
patches for AI Overhaul should be placed after all NPC overhauls).

## Pandorable's NPCs - Males - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch here.

## Pandorable's NPCs - Males 2 - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch here.

## USSEP - Northbourne NPCs - AI Overhaul Patches' Compendium

**Main files** - USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of the Rift - AI Overhaul
Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of the Winterhold - AI
Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of Haafingar - AI Overhaul
Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of Falkreath Hold - AI
Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of Whiterun Hold - AI Overhaul
Patch

## USSEP - The Ordinary Women - AI Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - USSEP - The Ordinary Women - AI Overhaul Patch

## USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of Falkreath Hold - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch here.

## USSEP - Northbourne NPCs of Whiterun Hold - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch here.

## Updated Kalilies NPCs - AI Overhaul Patch

**Main files** - AI Overhaul - Kalilies NPCs Patch

## Pandorable's Black-Briar Ladies - AI Overhaul Patch

**Move** - move the patch here.

# SALT & WIND HAIR RETEXTURES

Now we will make our hair mods (and some of our overhauled NPCs’ hairs)
blend a little bit better with vanilla ones.

Create a separator and name it *SALT & WIND HAIR RETEXTURES* and place
it directly below the *NPC OVERHAULS* separator (and its mods). Change
its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

## KS Hairdos 1.7 - Salt and Wind

﻿**Miscellaneous files** - Cuyima Interesting NPCs - Salt and Wind

﻿**Main files** - KS Hairdos 1.7 - Salt and Wind

**Miscellaneous files** - KS Hairdos SMP - Salt and Wind

﻿**Miscellaneous files** - Pandorable's NPCs - Salt and Wind

**Miscellaneous files** - Pandorable's NPCs DG - Salt and Wind

**Miscellaneous files** - Pandorable's NPCs DB - Salt and Wind

**Miscellaneous files** - The Ordinary Women - Salt and Wind

## Salt and Wind - Rough Hair for Apachii Sky Hair

﻿**Main files** - Salt and Wind - ApachiiSkyHair SE v1.6 Retexture

## Pandorable's Males - Salt and Wind Retexture

﻿**Main files** - Pandorable's Males - Salt and Wind

## Kalilies NPCs - Salt and Wind Retexture

﻿**Main files** - Kalilies NPCs - Salt and Wind

#  

# FINAL PATCHES

Create a separator and name it *TPF DRAGON’S EDITION - FINAL PATCHES*
and place it directly below the *SALT & WIND HAIR RETEXTURES* separator
(and its mods). Change its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's
ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

I have decided to make patches modular, so it is faster and easier for
me to check things inside.

## TPF Dragon’s Edition - Patches

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - New Content Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Apparel & Weapons Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Miscellaneous Patch

**Main files** - TPF Dragon's Edition - New Content & Miscellaneous
Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Appearance Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - NPC Overhauls Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - New Content and NPC Overhauls
Patch

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition Patch

#  

# ALTERNATE START

Create a separator and name it *ALTERNATE START* and place it directly
below the *TPF DRAGON’S EDITION - FINAL PATCHES* separator (and its
mods). Change its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

## Ralof or Hadvar

**Main files** - Ralof or Hadvar (saved in form 44)

*Skips the carriage drive and makes us enter right into Helgen’s Keep
with Ralof or Hadvar. In some way it isn't an alternate start, but at
the same time it is. What matters is this mod’s simplicity, which allows
us to jump right into the action.*

## TPF Dragon’s Edition - Alternate Start Patch

﻿**Main files** - Alternate Start Patch

# PATCHER OUTPUT

Create a separator and name it *TPF DRAGON’S EDITION - PATCHER OUTPUT*
and place it directly below the *PATCHER OUTPUT* separator (and its
outputs). Change its colour, so that it won't be the same as TPF's ones.

All of the following mods in this category will be placed under this
separator in the same order.

After enabling these outputs, disable TPF’s outputs.

## TPF Dragon’s Edition - Outputs

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Nemesis Output

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Terrain LOD

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Texgen Output

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - DynDOLOD Output **or** TPF
Dragon’s Edition - DynDOLOD Output (Performance) - was generated with
medium INIs and performance grass mods

(don’t forget to put Solstheim Ice Piles Fix after my DynDOLOD’s output)

﻿**Main files** - TPF Dragon’s Edition - Occlusion

# CONFIGURATIONS

And finally it is almost the end of the guide. Only some things to do,
so let’s get it done.

At first, we will need to reinstall some of TPF mods to leave TPF as
clean as we can and to get patches we need.

Open *Fixes* separator of the TPF, find the mod *NARC Remade - No
Animals Report Crimes*, right click on it and press *Reinstall Mod*,
rename the mod to *NARC Remade - No Animals Report Crimes - TPF Dragon’s
Edition*, then in FOMOD choose core file *NARC* with patches for Bruma,
Darkend, The Forgotten City and The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal, put the mod
right after the mod from TPF and activate it.

The same process must be done with:

-   *Fixed Mesh Lightning* in *GRAPHICS BASELINE* separator - TPFs
    patches ([<u>look
    here</u>](https://thephoenixflavour.com/tpf/mod-installation/graphics-baseline/#fomod-instructions-2))
    and Bruma for flora, More Growable Plants, Unique Flowers and
    Plants, 3D Mountain Flowers, Bruma for trees, Realistic Aspen Trees,
    Bruma for ice;

-   Now find files with **Hide (not now, later, when you will get to the
    CONFIGURATIONS section)** instructions and do what is asked;

-   *Lanterns of Skyrim II* in *LANDSCAPE* separator - SMIM and Bruma;

-   *Particle Lights For ENB - Undead Creatures* in *CREATURES* -
    Default undead eyes, weaker lightning for ghosts, a patch for
    *Cannibal Draugr*, red skulls, Solstheim version of the patch, then
    delete *clutter* folder inside meshes;

-   *Simple Children - Patches* in *APPEARANCE* - Bruma, Helgen Reborn,
    Interesting NPCs, Moon and Star, The Forgotten City, Wyrmstooth,
    Adopt Aventus Aretino + USSEP;

-   *Misc. College of Winterhold Tweaks* in *IMPROVED VANILLA QUESTS* -
    TPFs patches ([<u>look
    here</u>](https://thephoenixflavour.com/tpf/mod-installation/new-content/#fomod-instructions-3))
    except *Scheduled Savos, A Wizard’s Walk, Erratum Etc.*, which
    aren’t chosen by FOMOD too (just for you to be sure that is
    correct), and you should make sure that Obscure’s College of
    Winterhold Add-on, Interesting NPCs Add-on, *None* for *The Early
    Elementalist* are chosen. Then disable the original *Misc. College
    of Winterhold Tweaks*.

Then you will need to redownload one mod.

[**<u>Simple Player Homes
Improvements</u>**](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/37236)

﻿**Main files** - Simple Home Improvements AIO (Proudspire 4 Beds)

*Because we want more places for our many children to sleep, duh.*

Rename it to *Simple Player Homes Improvements - TPF Dragon’s Edition*
right when you are installing the mod. Put it after *Simple Player Homes
Improvements* in the MISCELLANEOUS section.

After that is done, click anywhere in the load order panel and select
*Enable all*. Then...

[**<u>TPF Dragon’s Edition
-</u>**](https://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/51973)
**<u>Load Order</u>**

﻿**Main files** - Load Order

*I hope you remember what to do with this. If no - open the archive and
extract the loadorder.txt to Mod Organizer 2\\profiles\\The Phoenix
Flavour - Dragon’s Edition.*

And now we are ready to jump into the game, but don’t do it right away.

At the beginning, don’t be scared when you see that your character’s
hair and/or beard isn't right. Do you remember us installing High Poly
Head and its hair (and beard) variations, right? So now we need to
actually activate our high poly head in Racemenu and then our hair will
look fine. Also choose a beard from High Poly Head and it will look good
if that is needed.

<img src="media/image7.png" style="width:3.42188in;height:4.00585in" />

Then find the *Weapons* category and change settings to the same ones
you see below.

<img src="media/image8.png" style="width:7.07737in;height:4.72917in" />

Later into the game, if you are planning to use shields and if you find
one, I recommend you to go into the console with *\~* key, type
*showracemenu*, press *Enter* and make corrections to your shield’s
position using settings you can again see below. You can also experiment
with other shield or even two-handed weapon settings, but don’t don’t
overdo these or animations will look funky. For now you can use these,
press *R* and *Enter* and you are done.

<img src="media/image9.png" style="width:6.95036in;height:4.7258in" />

At first, when Ralof or Hadvar frees you, don’t go anywhere right away.
Wait a bit for everything to load (wait after all messages on the top
left side of the screen disappear).

Second, don’t forget about following Phoenix’s in-game configurations at
first. Then continue with mine.

↓

[<u>https://thephoenixflavour.com/tpf/mod-configuration/</u>](https://thephoenixflavour.com/tpf/mod-configuration/)

Cond. Expressions MCM - Disable out of stamina, in pain,
headache/diseased expressions.

Diziet’s Auto Outfits MCM - In configuration settings, check the option
to unset all hotkeys for this mod.

End Times MCM - Lock the slider to not be tempted to change the final
date all time. I think one in-game year (approximately 18 real life
days) is good enough (and even feels right somehow), disable the spell
and countdown. You can always enter into MCM again to see how much time
you have left.

Hide Your Quests MCM - I recommend to hide right away all quests you get
right at the beginning except the main one, because you won’t be able to
start Helgen Reborn quest right at the beginning (read Gameplay Guide
for more information) and because The Sinister Seven quest isn’t the one
where you go to objective, just hide it, quest givers will look to you
when a time comes. Tried to understand how to make the quest with
Thalmor involved appear after you finish Diplomatic Immunity quest for
immersiveness, but couldn't, will look at that later, so let it be this
way - you heard about what is happening from elves when you were trying
to cross Skyrim’s border. You can do it as fast as you want, but enemies
won’t be the easiest ones to beat. I would recommend getting at least
level 15.

Improved Follower Dialogue MCM - If Lydia is too noisy, feel free to
change her comment frequency.

Look what you see ! MCM and activation - In the *Follow the Camera Mode*
menu choose hybrid head-tracking option and then choose *Disable when
weapon drawn* in the *Other Options*. After configuring all other mods
in MCM, Press *V* in the game to activate the mod.

Smart NPC Potions MCM - Standard potion drops aren’t affected, so set an
option to drop this mod’s potions to 0%. Change the chance of NPCs
having potions to 20% (we don’t want everyone to have those, right?) and
the number of potions to 3.

SmoothCam MCM (if you have followed the *Interface* section of the
add-on) - Activate the preset in *Presets* by pressing on *Slot 6:
Octavian’s Preset* in *Load Preset*. If you want, you can also enable
shoulder swapping in *Following* by choosing your shoulder swap key. I
recommend one of your mouse’s buttons if you have many buttons on it.
Then in *Crosshair*, enable *3D Magic Crosshair,* set minimum and
maximum crosshair size to 50, enable *Stealth Meter Offset* and an
option to always offset it, then set its Y offset to 200 (stealth meter
instructions should not be needed after the update of Smoothcam, but I
will leave them be for reference and for Y offset’s changes).

Strange Runes MCM - In the *Runes* section disable the *Allow NPC
Casting* option, otherwise NPCs can start behaving oddly and ward runes
look weird on them.

TK Dodge MCM - Change input method and forward roll input to *Double Tap
Only*, check *Step Dodge* option.

Werewolf Widget Control MCM and instructions - Change opacity to 60 and
text colour to white. The timer won’t work during your first
transformation, after transforming at least once, save your game. When
you transform again, it will be at the top of the screen near your
compass.

Wyrmstooth MCM - Change starting requirements to be the quest starting
after *A Blade in the Dark* quest is done (otherwise it feels too soon
for an organization to give this quest out).

Animated Shouts activation - Press your right *Alt* key to activate the
mod.

Inigo Whistle Key’s activation - You can issue commands to Inigo by
whistling to him. This ability is introduced during his quests and will
be explained in-game. You will need to press *,* button to use the
whistle.

Now I recommend you to go to [<u>the
change-log</u>](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1tyDaXgHrmInELa1Fr180LcvmggFAEtEw0xJIjuneVK4/edit?usp=sharing)
to see if you didn’t miss any important updates.

And some hints (and possibly **spoilers**) before the end.

At first, be sure to do at least half of the main quest series as some
added quests are tied to it (more information in Gameplay Guide).

Secondly, look inside Helgen’s Keep’s entries thoroughly as there will
be one little reward for attentive ones.

Thirdly, for people, who would want to adopt children and live with them
not in vanilla homes, there will be a neat spell book waiting for you
somewhere around Riverwood.

#  

# THANK YOU!

That’s all, folks! You are set to traverse into another modded world of
Skyrim.

If you are happy with my work, I won't mind if you endorse the add-on’s
page on Nexus and write something positive for me to read.

If you want to help even more, you can donate to me (via PayPal) by
pressing
[<u>here</u>](https://www.paypal.com/donate?hosted_button_id=9K4MGQC23DRYL).

If you want to learn a little bit more about the content we have added,
read the *Gameplay Guide* section of the add-on.

If you are interested in changing TPF’s default ENB to what I use
personally, continue with the *ENB* section.

If you have experienced a bug during your walkthrough, read the *Bugs*
section of the add-on.

# ENB

I love colours and to actually see where I am going, when playing the
game.

Some time ago TPF by default used Rudy ENB, which details were great,
but lightning left much to be desired. Like you can see in the
screenshot, if there is no light source near, we are in some kind of a
void of darkness, which troubles us pretty much everywhere. In my
opinion, that isn’t right at all. Do you sit at home with one little
light on and don’t see anything else around you? No, so this isn’t the
right ENB for us.

<img src="media/image10.png" style="width:6.27083in;height:3.52083in" />

Now as default TPF uses Serio’s ENB, which allows users with low end PCs
to use much needed features of ENB and make lightning to be a bit
better, but at the cost of removing more consuming features and
sometimes making things look too yellow for my taste.

At the moment I am using Silent Horizons ENB, which actually helps very
much with the lightning issue, and makes things look crisp and full with
colours. Another positive moment is that it almost doesn’t need any kind
of adjustments for TPF weather or any other mods, so we just need to
change ENB files and add a good addition for it.

<img src="media/image11.png" style="width:6.27in;height:3.5294in" />

<img src="media/image12.png" style="width:9.69291in;height:5.45833in" />

<img src="media/image13.png" style="width:9.69291in;height:5.45833in" />

*(ft. a mod in development, which soon will be released, by Monty)*

## Silent Horizons ENB

﻿**Main files** - D) Silent Horizons ENB for Cathedral Weathers

**Optional files** - Silent Horizons - Solar Cleaner

At first, delete *enbcache* folder you can find in your root folder.

Put *Silent Horizons ENB Addon - Solar Cleaner* right at the end of
TPF’s Weathers section mods in your mod order and put it right under
*WoW Dragon Mounds CTD Fix.esp* in your plugins’ load order. Then
Extract the main file. Open the optional folder, then depth of field
configuration folder. Choose your favourite depth of field settings with
the help of the photos you can find in the folder. I prefer the extra
light one. Open the folder of your choice, copy the folder, which is
inside, go back to the beginning and open *Silent Horizon 7.1 Cathedral
Weathers* folder, paste your chosen folder here and confirm the
override.

Open *enblocal.ini* file in the folder, change input commands to be as
the some ones as in TPF:

-   KeyCombination=0

-   KeyUseEffect=121

-   KeyFPSLimit=0

-   KeyShowFPS=118

-   KeyScreenshot=0

-   KeyEditor=122

-   KeyDof=0

Save changes to the file.

Open *ENB Man*, click the arrow under *Presets* and select *Blank
preset*, enter a name for the new preset – *Silent Horizons ENB for
Cathedral Weathers 7.1.* Click the green checkmark to confirm.
Drag-and-drop all files from the *Silent Horizon 7.1 Cathedral Weathers*
folder into ENB Man, always choose *No* if you are asked to add palettes
to ENB Man. Then click the gears icon under *Global Settings*, disable
the checkmark near *enblocal.ini*. Then click the green checkmark button
(if you want to go back to TPF’s default ENB, you will need to enable
*enblocal.ini* again). Then click on another green checkmark at the
bottom of the ENB Man window to install the preset.

That’s all, enjoy your fancy ENB now. Of course, you can also continue
with the *GAMEPLAY GUIDE* section of the guide if you are interested in
how to start some newly added quests.

#  

# GAMEPLAY GUIDE

Just a little heads up and how and when and how you should start newly
added quests.

The quests, which are added to the add-on, can be split between early
and mid game and late game ones, because their difficulty slightly
differs.

### Early and Mid Game Quests

Winterhold Deep Sea Ruins - Can be started any time by going northeast
from Winterhold. A journal can be found there in small ruins, which will
point you to the location with a ship marker. Should be done without a
follower.

Clockwork - Automatically after reaching level 5. Without a follower.

Beyond Skyrim - Bruma - Can be started any time in *Pale Pass* (will be
marked as two rocks together) southeast of Helgen.

Moonpath to Elsweyr - Can be started any time in Bruma’s *Greenwood*,
the southernmost point of County Bruma.

Identity Crisis - Can be started any time in *Abandoned Stables*
southeast of Yngol Barrow. Without a follower.

Moon and Star - Automatically after finishing the main quest *The* *Way
of the Voice.*

Carved Bink - After reaching level 10 in *Abandoned Grotto* west of Lost
Knife Hideout.

Project AHO - After reaching level 15, head to Braidwood Inn (located at
Kynesgrove) and talk to the innkeeper. Without a follower.

Darkend - Can be started any time in *Voyager's End* north of Ysgramor's
Tomb. At least level 15 is recommended.

The Wheels of Lull - Automatically after reaching level 20, can be
finished after reaching level 35.

Helgen Reborn - Must be started after 5 days after you have finished the
main quest *Unbound*. Recommended to be started at level 20. Read the
book *Helgen Reborn Guide* in your inventory to start the quest.

The Tools of Kagrenac - Join the College of Winterhold and finish the
side questline *Arniel’s Endeavor*. You’ll also need to have finished
*The Way of the Voice*﻿. A couple of days after you completed *Arniel’s
Endeavor* and claimed Keening, the quest will start automatically. Make
sure you have Keening in your inventory, it will turn into a quest item
when the mod starts.

The Gray Cowl of Nocturnal - After reaching level 20 and after
pickpocketing or stealing anything. Level 30-35 is recommended, for
thief characters (sneaking and pickpocketing).

### Late Game Quests

Undeath - Automatically without anything happening after reaching level
30 (I know, not immersive, unfortunately the patch for making it start
in a better way was removed from Nexus, going to deal with that later,
the late game quest, considered you should have gotten it after one
Dragonborn quest).

The Forgotten City - Automatically after reaching level 40. The story
responds to your character’s individual history, actions, so a high
level of speech skill (approximately 60) is also recommended. Enemies
will be pretty tough, but not as tough as within other late game quests.
That’s and also the immersiveness is the reason for setting this quest
requirements as high, because by default it starts at level 5. Without a
follower.

The Ice Blade of the Monarch - Can be started any time in *Pilgrim's
Trench* northeast of The Tower Stone, hard mod.

The Tournament of the Ten Bloods - Can be started after reading *The
Story of Lyrisius* in the Arcanaeum, hard mod.

Wyrmstooth - automatically after Level 10 and after finishing the main
quest *A Blade in the Dark*. According to the official guide book, it
can be challenging even for level 70 characters. It is also recommended
to be prepared before venturing into the quest with some potions and
arrows if you are an archer.

The Grand Paladin - After reading a book *The Grand Paladin* in Bards
College or Skaal's Village Great Hall. Having more than 300 health is
highly recommended. PC must be able to shout, very hard mod.

The Final Cataclysm - Automatically after reaching level 50 and after
finishing the main quest *The Horn of Jurgen Windcaller*. Stealth and
combat oriented character required, very hard mod. After reaching level
60, a bonus quest becomes available.

I have tried to write as little information as I could so as not to
spoil the content. Won’t tell you any details about your potential new
followers and other surprises as they should be discovered pretty easily
while exploring.

# BUGS

I am sorry if you need to use this paragraph.

You have read right at the start on the Nexus page that if something bad
happens I want a normal report, not something like *nothing is working
wtf help plz*. In my opinion, it is a fair request, so, please, try your
best.

Of course, if you are reporting not an in-game bug, I am not expecting 5
sentences about that, just write what the problem is in
*#tpf-addons-support*.

Report requirements:

-   Title of the report should be made according to the problem (not
    > *Issue, HELP!!!!, problem*, but something like *Black Face, Flying
    > Rock* etc.);

-   Copy of YOUR *modlist.txt* and *loadorder.txt* (Navigate to your MO2
    > folder, open *profiles* folder, then *The Phoenix Flavour -
    > Dragon’s Edition*) (use Google Drive, text sharing service etc.);

-   Screenshot of the problem (copy and paste in the report or again
    > just use a picture sharing service etc.) (when the problem is
    > seeable on the screen, open the console (*\~* key) and press on
    > the problem, then take screenshot);

-   Description of the problem (what, when, where);

-   Try to repeat the issue (go somewhere else, then do whatever you
    > were doing before again for at least 3 times);

-   How to repeat the issue (remember that Skyrim is Skyrim, so if the
    > issue can’t be repeated, I won’t be able to help) (if by your
    > report it is understandable how to repeat the issue (in the
    > example), of course, you don’t need to write the same thing
    > again).

### 

### 

### Example

***Black Face***

*<u>A person has sent me a screenshot of a guard with black face and I
see all the data about the guard from a console, her perfect, untouched
modlist.txt and loadorder.txt.</u>*

*Was going to Whiterun for the first time, right near the gate of the
city one of the guards has black face. Have tried to get to the stables
and then return, but the issue is still there.*

I will try to respond as fast as I can. Please, be mindful that I have
studies, other hobbies and many other things to do and places to be, so
don’t directly message me for this.
